# "Optimal Study Design in Cluster Randomized Trials with Budget and Data Parameter Considerations: A Simulation Study"

Cluster randomized trials (CRTs), where clusters instead of observations are assigned treatment, are often used when researchers want to avoid treatment contamination or have a small study population to draw from. In a CRT, the study design depends on both the number of clusters and the number of observations in each cluster. Finding the optimal balance of cluster number and size is made more complex when there are additional budget considerations. Therefore, determining the optimal design given different cost ratios and data conditions is a useful question to answer. We conduct a simulation study, generating data from normal and Poisson hierarchical models with varying data parameters and cost ratios. For each setting, we estimate the treatment effect and evaluate different study designs using the variance of the treatment estimator. The optimal study design has the lowest variance, and we test how that design changes under the different settings. We found that the optimal study design will generally have a small number of clusters with many observations when the cost ratio increases. Some of the data parameters did have an effect on the optimal design, but the effect decreased as the cost ratio increased. The effects of the parameters were not always consistent across the different distributions. 

The Code folder contains all code for this project. The `Simulation_functions` file contains the functions used to simulate the data and the results. The `Experiments` file cointains the code and parameters used to run the experiments. The tables and figures files contain the code to create the visualizations for the normal and poisson cases. The Simulation Results folder contains the saved results for each of the experiments. The Report folder contains the markdown file for the report as well as the rendered PDF. 

